The Gospel According to Saint Luke
1:1 Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order adeclaration of those things which are most surely believed among us,1:2 Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning wereeyewitnesses, and ministers of the word; 1:3 It seemed good to mealso, having had perfect understanding of all things from the veryfirst, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, 1:4That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thouhast been instructed.
1:5 THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certainpriest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of thedaughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.
1:6 And they were both righteous before God, walking in all thecommandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.
1:7 And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and theyboth were now well stricken in years.
1:8 And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest’s officebefore God in the order of his course, 1:9 According to the custom ofthe priest’s office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into thetemple of the Lord.
1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at thetime of incense.
1:11 And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on theright side of the altar of incense.
1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell uponhim.
1:13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayeris heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shaltcall his name John.
1:14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice athis birth.
1:15 For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drinkneither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the HolyGhost, even from his mother’s womb.
1:16 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lordtheir God.
1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, toturn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient tothe wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
1:18 And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? forI am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.
1:19 And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that standin the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shewthee these glad tidings.
1:20 And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until theday that these things shall be performed, because thou believest notmy words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.
1:21 And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that hetarried so long in the temple.
1:22 And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and theyperceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckonedunto them, and remained speechless.
1:23 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of hisministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.
1:24 And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hidherself five months, saying, 1:25 Thus hath the Lord dealt with me inthe days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.
1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto acity of Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27 To a virgin espoused to a manwhose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s namewas Mary.
1:28 And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that arthighly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.
1:29 And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast inher mind what manner of salutation this should be.
1:30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast foundfavour with God.
1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth ason, and shalt call his name JESUS.
1:32 He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest:and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of hiskingdom there shall be no end.
1:34 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I knownot a man?  1:35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The HolyGhost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shallovershadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born ofthee shall be called the Son of God.
1:36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a sonin her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was calledbarren.
1:37 For with God nothing shall be impossible.
1:38 And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto meaccording to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
1:39 And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country withhaste, into a city of Juda; 1:40 And entered into the house ofZacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.
1:41 And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation ofMary, the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with theHoly Ghost: 1:42 And she spake out with a loud voice, and said,Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
1:43 And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should cometo me?  1:44 For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation soundedin mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.
1:45 And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be aperformance of those things which were told her from the Lord.
1:46 And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, 1:47 And my spirithath rejoiced in God my Saviour.
1:48 For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for,behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.
1:49 For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy ishis name.
1:50 And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation togeneration.
1:51 He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proudin the imagination of their hearts.
1:52 He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them oflow degree.
1:53 He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hathsent empty away.
1:54 He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;1:55 As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.
1:56 And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to herown house.
1:57 Now Elisabeth’s full time came that she should be delivered; andshe brought forth a son.
1:58 And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewedgreat mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.
1:59 And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came tocircumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name ofhis father.
1:60 And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be calledJohn.
1:61 And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that iscalled by this name.
1:62 And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called.
1:63 And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name isJohn. And they marvelled all.
1:64 And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, andhe spake, and praised God.
1:65 And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all thesesayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.
1:66 And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts,saying, What manner of child shall this be! And the hand of the Lordwas with him.
1:67 And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, andprophesied, saying, 1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for hehath visited and redeemed his people, 1:69 And hath raised up an hornof salvation for us in the house of his servant David; 1:70 As hespake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since theworld began: 1:71 That we should be saved from our enemies, and fromthe hand of all that hate us; 1:72 To perform the mercy promised toour fathers, and to remember his holy covenant; 1:73 The oath which hesware to our father Abraham, 1:74 That he would grant unto us, that webeing delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him withoutfear, 1:75 In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days ofour life.
1:76 And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: forthou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways; 1:77 Togive knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of theirsins, 1:78 Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspringfrom on high hath visited us, 1:79 To give light to them that sit indarkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way ofpeace.
1:80 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in thedeserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel.
2:1 And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decreefrom Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.
2:2 (And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor ofSyria.)  2:3 And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city.
2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth,into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem;(because he was of the house and lineage of David:) 2:5 To be taxedwith Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.
2:6 And so it was, that, while they were there, the days wereaccomplished that she should be delivered.
2:7 And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him inswaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no roomfor them in the inn.
2:8 And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field,keeping watch over their flock by night.
2:9 And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory ofthe Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.
2:10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring yougood tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.
2:11 For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour,which is Christ the Lord.
2:12 And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrappedin swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenlyhost praising God, and saying, 2:14 Glory to God in the highest, andon earth peace, good will toward men.
2:15 And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them intoheaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even untoBethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lordhath made known unto us.
2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and thebabe lying in a manger.
2:17 And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the sayingwhich was told them concerning this child.
2:18 And all they that heard it wondered at those things which weretold them by the shepherds.
2:19 But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.
2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for allthe things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
2:21 And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of thechild, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angelbefore he was conceived in the womb.
2:22 And when the days of her purification according to the law ofMoses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present himto the Lord; 2:23 (As it is written in the law of the LORD, Every malethat openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;) 2:24 And tooffer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of theLord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
2:25 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon;and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation ofIsrael: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.
2:26 And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he shouldnot see death, before he had seen the Lord’s Christ.
2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parentsbrought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 2:29Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thyword: 2:30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 2:31 Which thou hastprepared before the face of all people; 2:32 A light to lighten theGentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.
2:33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which werespoken of him.
2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold,this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; andfor a sign which shall be spoken against; 2:35 (Yea, a sword shallpierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many heartsmay be revealed.
2:36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, ofthe tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with anhusband seven years from her virginity; 2:37 And she was a widow ofabout fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple,but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.
2:38 And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto theLord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption inJerusalem.
2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law ofthe Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
2:40 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled withwisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.
2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of thepassover.
2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem afterthe custom of the feast.
2:43 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the childJesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew notof it.
2:44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day’sjourney; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.
2:45 And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem,seeking him.
2:46 And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in thetemple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, andasking them questions.
2:47 And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding andanswers.
2:48 And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said untohim, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and Ihave sought thee sorrowing.
2:49 And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye notthat I must be about my Father’s business?  2:50 And they understoodnot the saying which he spake unto them.
2:51 And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subjectunto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with Godand man.
3:1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, PontiusPilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee,and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region ofTrachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene, 3:2 Annas andCaiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John theson of Zacharias in the wilderness.
3:3 And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching thebaptism of repentance for the remission of sins; 3:4 As it is writtenin the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice ofone crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make hispaths straight.
3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall bebrought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the roughways shall be made smooth; 3:6 And all flesh shall see the salvationof God.
3:7 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized ofhim, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from thewrath to come?  3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance,and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father:for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise upchildren unto Abraham.
3:9 And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: everytree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, andcast into the fire.
3:10 And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?  3:11 Heanswereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impartto him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
3:12 Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,Master, what shall we do?  3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no morethan that which is appointed you.
3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shallwe do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuseany falsely; and be content with your wages.
3:15 And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in theirhearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not; 3:16 Johnanswered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; butone mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthyto unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:3:17 Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor,and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burnwith fire unquenchable.
3:18 And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto thepeople.
3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias hisbrother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,3:20 Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, thatJesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, 3:22And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him,and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; inthee I am well pleased.
3:23 And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being(as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli, 3:24Which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was theson of Melchi, which was the son of Janna, which was the son ofJoseph, 3:25 Which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son ofAmos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, which wasthe son of Nagge, 3:26 Which was the son of Maath, which was the sonof Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which was the son ofJoseph, which was the son of Juda, 3:27 Which was the son of Joanna,which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which wasthe son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri, 3:28 Which was theson of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam,which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er, 3:29 Which wasthe son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son ofJorim, which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, 3:30Which was the son of Simeon, which was the son of Juda, which was theson of Joseph, which was the son of Jonan, which was the son ofEliakim, 3:31 Which was the son of Melea, which was the son of Menan,which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of Nathan, which wasthe son of David, 3:32 Which was the son of Jesse, which was the sonof Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, whichwas the son of Naasson, 3:33 Which was the son of Aminadab, which wasthe son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son ofPhares, which was the son of Juda, 3:34 Which was the son of Jacob,which was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which wasthe son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor, 3:35 Which was the sonof Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec,which was the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala, 3:36 Which wasthe son of Cainan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son ofSem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech, 3:37 Whichwas the son of Mathusala, which was the son of Enoch, which was theson of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son ofCainan, 3:38 Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth,which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.
4:1 And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, andwas led by the Spirit into the wilderness, 4:2 Being forty daystempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and whenthey were ended, he afterward hungered.
4:3 And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, commandthis stone that it be made bread.
4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall notlive by bread alone, but by every word of God.
4:5 And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed untohim all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
4:6 And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, andthe glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever Iwill I give it.
4:7 If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.
4:8 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan:for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him onlyshalt thou serve.
4:9 And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of thetemple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyselfdown from hence: 4:10 For it is written, He shall give his angelscharge over thee, to keep thee: 4:11 And in their hands they shallbear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
4:12 And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt nottempt the Lord thy God.
4:13 And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed fromhim for a season.
4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: andthere went out a fame of him through all the region round about.
4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.
4:16 And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, ashis custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, andstood up for to read.
4:17 And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias.And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it waswritten, 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hathanointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to healthe brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, andrecovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that arebruised, 4:19 To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.
4:20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, andsat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue werefastened on him.
4:21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripturefulfilled in your ears.
4:22 And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious wordswhich proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph’sson?  4:23 And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me thisproverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done inCapernaum, do also here in thy country.
4:24 And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in hisown country.
4:25 But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the daysof Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, whengreat famine was throughout all the land; 4:26 But unto none of themwas Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman thatwas a widow.
4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus theprophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.
4:28 And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, werefilled with wrath, 4:29 And rose up, and thrust him out of the city,and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built,that they might cast him down headlong.
4:30 But he passing through the midst of them went his way, 4:31 Andcame down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on thesabbath days.
4:32 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was withpower.
4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of anunclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, 4:34 Saying, Let usalone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thoucome to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.
4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out ofhim.
And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him,and hurt him not.
4:36 And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying,What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth theunclean spirits, and they come out.
4:37 And the fame of him went out into every place of the countryround about.
4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon’shouse.
And Simon’s wife’s mother was taken with a great fever; and theybesought him for her.
4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her:and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.
4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick withdivers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on everyone of them, and healed them.
4:41 And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thouart Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not tospeak: for they knew that he was Christ.
4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place:and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that heshould not depart from them.
4:43 And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to othercities also: for therefore am I sent.
4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
5:1 And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hearthe word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret, 5:2 And saw twoships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them,and were washing their nets.
5:3 And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon’s, andprayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he satdown, and taught the people out of the ship.
5:4 Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out intothe deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
5:5 And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all thenight, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will letdown the net.
5:6 And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude offishes: and their net brake.
5:7 And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the othership, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filledboth the ships, so that they began to sink.
5:8 When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying,Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
5:9 For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draughtof the fishes which they had taken: 5:10 And so was also James, andJohn, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesussaid unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
5:11 And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all,and followed him.
5:12 And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a manfull of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him,saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
5:13 And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: bethou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.
5:14 And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself tothe priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded,for a testimony unto them.
5:15 But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and greatmultitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of theirinfirmities.
5:16 And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed.
5:17 And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, thatthere were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which werecome out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and thepower of the Lord was present to heal them.
5:18 And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with apalsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him beforehim.
5:19 And when they could not find by what way they might bring him inbecause of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let himdown through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
5:20 And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins areforgiven thee.
5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who isthis which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?5:22 But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said untothem, What reason ye in your hearts?  5:23 Whether is easier, to say,Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?  5:24 But thatye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins,(he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and takeup thy couch, and go into thine house.
5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereonhe lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.
5:26 And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filledwith fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.
5:27 And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, namedLevi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Followme.
5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.
5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was agreat company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.
5:30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples,saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?  5:31 AndJesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not aphysician; but they that are sick.
5:32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
5:33 And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often,and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; butthine eat and drink?  5:34 And he said unto them, Can ye make thechildren of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?5:35 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken awayfrom them, and then shall they fast in those days.
5:36 And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece ofa new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh arent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with theold.
5:37 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new winewill burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish.
5:38 But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both arepreserved.
5:39 No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: forhe saith, The old is better.
6:1 And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that hewent through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears ofcorn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.
6:2 And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that whichis not lawful to do on the sabbath days?  6:3 And Jesus answering themsaid, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himselfwas an hungred, and they which were with him; 6:4 How he went into thehouse of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also tothem that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for thepriests alone?  6:5 And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lordalso of the sabbath.
6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered intothe synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand waswithered.
6:7 And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would healon the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.
6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had thewithered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose andstood forth.
6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawfulon the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or todestroy it?  6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said untothe man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand wasrestored whole as the other.
6:11 And they were filled with madness; and communed one with anotherwhat they might do to Jesus.
6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into amountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.
6:13 And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and ofthem he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whomhe also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philipand Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus,and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of James, andJudas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.
6:17 And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and thecompany of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of allJudaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, whichcame to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And theythat were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.
6:19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there wentvirtue out of him, and healed them all.
6:20 And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed beye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.
6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessedare ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.
6:22 Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shallseparate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast outyour name as evil, for the Son of man’s sake.
6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, yourreward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathersunto the prophets.
6:24 But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received yourconsolation.
6:25 Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto youthat laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.
6:26 Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so didtheir fathers to the false prophets.
6:27 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to themwhich hate you, 6:28 Bless them that curse you, and pray for themwhich despitefully use you.
6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also theother; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coatalso.
6:30 Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that takethaway thy goods ask them not again.
6:31 And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to themlikewise.
6:32 For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? forsinners also love those that love them.
6:33 And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank haveye?  for sinners also do even the same.
6:34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thankhave ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping fornothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be thechildren of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to theevil.
6:36 Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
6:37 Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shallnot be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: 6:38 Give, and itshall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shakentogether, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For withthe same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to youagain.
6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind?shall they not both fall into the ditch?  6:40 The disciple is notabove his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as hismaster.
6:41 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, butperceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  6:42 Either howcanst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote thatis in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is inthine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thineown eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that isin thy brother’s eye.
6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth acorrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
6:44 For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men donot gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forththat which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of hisheart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of theheart his mouth speaketh.
6:46 And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which Isay?  6:47 Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeththem, I will shew you to whom he is like: 6:48 He is like a man whichbuilt an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock:and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house,and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.
6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without afoundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream didbeat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that housewas great.
7:1 Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of thepeople, he entered into Capernaum.
7:2 And a certain centurion’s servant, who was dear unto him, wassick, and ready to die.
7:3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of theJews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant.
7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying,That he was worthy for whom he should do this: 7:5 For he loveth ournation, and he hath built us a synagogue.
7:6 Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from thehouse, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord,trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enterunder my roof: 7:7 Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to comeunto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed.
7:8 For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers,and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and hecometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
7:9 When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned himabout, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, Ihave not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.
7:10 And they that were sent, returning to the house, found theservant whole that had been sick.
7:11 And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a citycalled Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.
7:12 Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there wasa dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was awidow: and much people of the city was with her.
7:13 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and saidunto her, Weep not.
7:14 And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stoodstill.
And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.
7:15 And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he deliveredhim to his mother.
7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying,That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visitedhis people.
7:17 And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, andthroughout all the region round about.
7:18 And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things.
7:19 And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them toJesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hathsent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look wefor another?  7:21 And in that same hour he cured many of theirinfirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that wereblind he gave sight.
7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell Johnwhat things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lamewalk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, tothe poor the gospel is preached.
7:23 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speakunto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wildernessfor to see?  A reed shaken with the wind?  7:25 But what went ye outfor to see? A man clothed in soft raiment?  Behold, they which aregorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings’ courts.
7:26 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you,and much more than a prophet.
7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messengerbefore thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
7:28 For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there isnot a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least inthe kingdom of God is greater than he.
7:29 And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justifiedGod, being baptized with the baptism of John.
7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God againstthemselves, being not baptized of him.
7:31 And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of thisgeneration? and to what are they like?  7:32 They are like untochildren sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, andsaying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we havemourned to you, and ye have not wept.
7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine;and ye say, He hath a devil.
7:34 The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold agluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!7:35 But wisdom is justified of all her children.
7:36 And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him.And he went into the Pharisee’s house, and sat down to meat.
7:37 And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when sheknew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee’s house, brought analabaster box of ointment, 7:38 And stood at his feet behind himweeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them withthe hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with theointment.
7:39 Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spakewithin himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would haveknown who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for sheis a sinner.
7:40 And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to sayunto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.
7:41 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owedfive hundred pence, and the other fifty.
7:42 And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both.Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?  7:43 Simonanswered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most.
And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.
7:44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou thiswoman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for myfeet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with thehairs of her head.
7:45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came inhath not ceased to kiss my feet.
7:46 My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hathanointed my feet with ointment.
7:47 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, areforgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the sameloveth little.
7:48 And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.
7:49 And they that sat at meat with him began to say withinthemselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?  7:50 And he said tothe woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.
8:1 And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every cityand village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom ofGod: and the twelve were with him, 8:2 And certain women, which hadbeen healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene,out of whom went seven devils, 8:3 And Joanna the wife of ChuzaHerod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered untohim of their substance.
8:4 And when much people were gathered together, and were come to himout of every city, he spake by a parable: 8:5 A sower went out to sowhis seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it wastrodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.
8:6 And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, itwithered away, because it lacked moisture.
8:7 And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, andchoked it.
8:8 And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit anhundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hathears to hear, let him hear.
8:9 And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?8:10 And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of thekingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might notsee, and hearing they might not understand.
8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
8:12 Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil,and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believeand be saved.
8:13 They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive theword with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, andin time of temptation fall away.
8:14 And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they haveheard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures ofthis life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
8:15 But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and goodheart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit withpatience.
8:16 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel,or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that theywhich enter in may see the light.
8:17 For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neitherany thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.
8:18 Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shallbe given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even thatwhich he seemeth to have.
8:19 Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not comeat him for the press.
8:20 And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thybrethren stand without, desiring to see thee.
8:21 And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren arethese which hear the word of God, and do it.
8:22 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a shipwith his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto theother side of the lake. And they launched forth.
8:23 But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm ofwind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were injeopardy.
8:24 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, weperish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of thewater: and they ceased, and there was a calm.
8:25 And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraidwondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for hecommandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him.
8:26 And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is overagainst Galilee.
8:27 And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city acertain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neitherabode in any house, but in the tombs.
8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, andwith a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Sonof God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.
8:29 (For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man.For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chainsand in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devilinto the wilderness.)  8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thyname? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him.
8:31 And they besought him that he would not command them to go outinto the deep.
8:32 And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on themountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enterinto them. And he suffered them.
8:33 Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine:and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and werechoked.
8:34 When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and wentand told it in the city and in the country.
8:35 Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, andfound the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at thefeet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
8:36 They also which saw it told them by what means he that waspossessed of the devils was healed.
8:37 Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes roundabout besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with greatfear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again.
8:38 Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought himthat he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying, 8:39Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath doneunto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the wholecity how great things Jesus had done unto him.
8:40 And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the peoplegladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.
8:41 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler ofthe synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus’ feet, and besought him thathe would come into his house: 8:42 For he had one only daughter, abouttwelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the peoplethronged him.
8:43 And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which hadspent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,8:44 Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: andimmediately her issue of blood stanched.
8:45 And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and theythat were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and pressthee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  8:46 And Jesus said, Somebodyhath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.
8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling,and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all thepeople for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healedimmediately.
8:48 And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faithhath made thee whole; go in peace.
8:49 While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of thesynagogue’s house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble notthe Master.
8:50 But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not:believe only, and she shall be made whole.
8:51 And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in,save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of themaiden.
8:52 And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is notdead, but sleepeth.
8:53 And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
8:54 And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called,saying, Maid, arise.
8:55 And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and hecommanded to give her meat.
8:56 And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that theyshould tell no man what was done.
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them powerand authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.
9:2 And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal thesick.
9:3 And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neitherstaves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have twocoats apiece.
9:4 And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thencedepart.
9:5 And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city,shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
9:6 And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching thegospel, and healing every where.
9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and hewas perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risenfrom the dead; 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and ofothers, that one of the old prophets was risen again.
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom Ihear such things? And he desired to see him.
9:10 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that theyhad done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desertplace belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
9:11 And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he receivedthem, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them thathad need of healing.
9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, andsaid unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into thetowns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we arehere in a desert place.
9:13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, Wehave no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go andbuy meat for all this people.
9:14 For they were about five thousand men. And he said to hisdisciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.
9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down.
9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking upto heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples toset before the multitude.
9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up offragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
9:18 And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples werewith him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?9:19 They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; andothers say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.
9:20 He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answeringsaid, The Christ of God.
9:21 And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no manthat thing; 9:22 Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, andbe rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain,and be raised the third day.
9:23 And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let himdeny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.
9:24 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoeverwill lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.
9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, andlose himself, or be cast away?  9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed ofme and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when heshall come in his own glory, and in his Father’s, and of the holyangels.
9:27 But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, whichshall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.
9:28 And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, hetook Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.
9:29 And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, andhis raiment was white and glistering.
9:30 And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses andElias: 9:31 Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which heshould accomplish at Jerusalem.
9:32 But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: andwhen they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stoodwith him.
9:33 And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said untoJesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make threetabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: notknowing what he said.
9:34 While he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them:and they feared as they entered into the cloud.
9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is mybeloved Son: hear him.
9:36 And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they keptit close, and told no man in those days any of those things which theyhad seen.
9:37 And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were comedown from the hill, much people met him.
9:38 And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, Ibeseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child.
9:39 And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and itteareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departethfrom him.
9:40 And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.
9:41 And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation,how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.
9:42 And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tarehim.
And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, anddelivered him again to his father.
9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But whilethey wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said untohis disciples, 9:44 Let these sayings sink down into your ears: forthe Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.
9:45 But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them,that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.
9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should begreatest.
9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child,and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever shall receivethis child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive mereceiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, thesame shall be great.
9:49 And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devilsin thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with us.
9:50 And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is notagainst us is for us.
9:51 And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should bereceived up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52 Andsent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into avillage of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.
9:53 And they did not receive him, because his face was as though hewould go to Jerusalem.
9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord,wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consumethem, even as Elias did?  9:55 But he turned, and rebuked them, andsaid, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
9:56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men’s lives, but tosave them. And they went to another village.
9:57 And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain mansaid unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
9:58 And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the airhave nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
9:59 And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer mefirst to go and bury my father.
9:60 Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thouand preach the kingdom of God.
9:61 And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me firstgo bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.
9:62 And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to theplough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, andsent them two and two before his face into every city and place,whither he himself would come.
10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but thelabourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that hewould send forth labourers into his harvest.
10:3 Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.
10:4 Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man bythe way.
10:5 And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to thishouse.
10:6 And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it:if not, it shall turn to you again.
10:7 And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things asthey give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from houseto house.
10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat suchthings as are set before you: 10:9 And heal the sick that are therein,and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
10:10 But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, goyour ways out into the streets of the same, and say, 10:11 Even thevery dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off againstyou: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God iscome nigh unto you.
10:12 But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that dayfor Sodom, than for that city.
10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if themighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done inyou, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth andashes.
10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at thejudgment, than for you.
10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt bethrust down to hell.
10:16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth youdespiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.
10:17 And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even thedevils are subject unto us through thy name.
10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall fromheaven.
10:19 Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents andscorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall byany means hurt you.
10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits aresubject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are writtenin heaven.
10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, OFather, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things fromthe wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so,Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.
10:22 All things are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knowethwho the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son,and he to whom the Son will reveal him.
10:23 And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately,Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see: 10:24 For Itell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see thosethings which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those thingswhich ye hear, and have not heard them.
10:25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying,Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?  10:26 He said untohim, What is written in the law? how readest thou?  10:27 And heanswering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thymind; and thy neighbour as thyself.
10:28 And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, andthou shalt live.
10:29 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who ismy neighbour?  10:30 And Jesus answering said, A certain man went downfrom Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped himof his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
10:31 And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: andwhen he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
10:32 And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and lookedon him, and passed by on the other side.
10:33 But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: andwhen he saw him, he had compassion on him, 10:34 And went to him, andbound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his ownbeast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
10:35 And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, andgave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; andwhatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
10:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto himthat fell among the thieves?  10:37 And he said, He that shewed mercyon him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.
10:38 Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into acertain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him intoher house.
10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus’ feet,and heard his word.
10:40 But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, andsaid, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to servealone?  bid her therefore that she help me.
10:41 And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou artcareful and troubled about many things: 10:42 But one thing isneedful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be takenaway from her.
11:1 And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place,when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us topray, as John also taught his disciples.
11:2 And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art inheaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, asin heaven, so in earth.
11:3 Give us day by day our daily bread.
11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that isindebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us fromevil.
11:5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, andshall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me threeloaves; 11:6 For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and Ihave nothing to set before him?  11:7 And he from within shall answerand say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children arewith me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
11:8 I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because heis his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and givehim as many as he needeth.
11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and yeshall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
11:10 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seekethfindeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
11:11 If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will hegive him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him aserpent?  11:12 Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him ascorpion?  11:13 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good giftsunto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give theHoly Spirit to them that ask him?  11:14 And he was casting out adevil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was goneout, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.
11:15 But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebubthe chief of the devils.
11:16 And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
11:17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdomdivided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house dividedagainst a house falleth.
11:18 If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdomstand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.
11:19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons castthem out? therefore shall they be your judges.
11:20 But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt thekingdom of God is come upon you.
11:21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are inpeace: 11:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, andovercome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted,and divideth his spoils.
11:23 He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth notwith me scattereth.
11:24 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh throughdry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will returnunto my house whence I came out.
11:25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.
11:26 Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wickedthan himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last stateof that man is worse than the first.
11:27 And it came to pass, as he spake these things, a certain womanof the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is thewomb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.
11:28 But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word ofGod, and keep it.
11:29 And when the people were gathered thick together, he began tosay, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall nosign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.
11:30 For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also theSon of man be to this generation.
11:31 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with themen of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the utmostparts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, agreater than Solomon is here.
11:32 The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with thisgeneration, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preachingof Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.
11:33 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secretplace, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they whichcome in may see the light.
11:34 The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye issingle, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye isevil, thy body also is full of darkness.
11:35 Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be notdarkness.
11:36 If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no partdark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining ofa candle doth give thee light.
11:37 And as he spake, a certain Pharisee besought him to dine withhim: and he went in, and sat down to meat.
11:38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not firstwashed before dinner.
11:39 And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean theoutside of the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full ofravening and wickedness.
11:40 Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make thatwhich is within also?  11:41 But rather give alms of such things as yehave; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.
11:42 But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and allmanner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God: theseought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
11:43 Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in thesynagogues, and greetings in the markets.
11:44 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are asgraves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not awareof them.
11:45 Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Master,thus saying thou reproachest us also.
11:46 And he said, Woe unto you also, ye lawyers! for ye lade men withburdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdenswith one of your fingers.
11:47 Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, andyour fathers killed them.
11:48 Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers:for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.
11:49 Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send them prophetsand apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute: 11:50That the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundationof the world, may be required of this generation; 11:51 From the bloodof Abel unto the blood of Zacharias which perished between the altarand the temple: verily I say unto you, It shall be required of thisgeneration.
11:52 Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key ofknowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were enteringin ye hindered.
11:53 And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and thePharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak ofmany things: 11:54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch somethingout of his mouth, that they might accuse him.
12:1 In the mean time, when there were gathered together aninnumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one uponanother, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye ofthe leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
12:2 For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neitherhid, that shall not be known.
12:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard inthe light; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shallbe proclaimed upon the housetops.
12:4 And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that killthe body, and after that have no more that they can do.
12:5 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which afterhe hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fearhim.
12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of themis forgotten before God?  12:7 But even the very hairs of your headare all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than manysparrows.
12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, himshall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God: 12:9 Buthe that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels ofGod.
12:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, itshall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the HolyGhost it shall not be forgiven.
12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and untomagistrates, and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shallanswer, or what ye shall say: 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach youin the same hour what ye ought to say.
12:13 And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to mybrother, that he divide the inheritance with me.
12:14 And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider overyou?  12:15 And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware ofcovetousness: for a man’s life consisteth not in the abundance of thethings which he possesseth.
12:16 And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of acertain rich man brought forth plentifully: 12:17 And he thoughtwithin himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room whereto bestow my fruits?  12:18 And he said, This will I do: I will pulldown my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all myfruits and my goods.
12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid upfor many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
12:20 But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall berequired of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hastprovided?  12:21 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and isnot rich toward God.
12:22 And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Takeno thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body,what ye shall put on.
12:23 The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.
12:24 Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; whichneither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much moreare ye better than the fowls?  12:25 And which of you with takingthought can add to his stature one cubit?  12:26 If ye then be notable to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for therest?  12:27 Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, theyspin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory wasnot arrayed like one of these.
12:28 If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field,and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you,O ye of little faith?  12:29 And seek not ye what ye shall eat, orwhat ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.
12:30 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: andyour Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these thingsshall be added unto you.
12:32 Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father’s good pleasure togive you the kingdom.
12:33 Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags whichwax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where nothief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.
12:34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
12:35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; 12:36And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he willreturn from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they mayopen unto him immediately.
12:37 Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shallfind watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, andmake them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them.
12:38 And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the thirdwatch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.
12:39 And this know, that if the goodman of the house had known whathour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not havesuffered his house to be broken through.
12:40 Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hourwhen ye think not.
12:41 Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable untous, or even to all?  12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is thatfaithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over hishousehold, to give them their portion of meat in due season?  12:43Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find sodoing.
12:44 Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over allthat he hath.
12:45 But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth hiscoming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and toeat and drink, and to be drunken; 12:46 The lord of that servant willcome in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he isnot aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him hisportion with the unbelievers.
12:47 And that servant, which knew his lord’s will, and prepared nothimself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with manystripes.
12:48 But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes,shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given,of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, ofhim they will ask the more.
12:49 I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it bealready kindled?  12:50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with; andhow am I straitened till it be accomplished!  12:51 Suppose ye that Iam come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided,three against two, and two against three.
12:53 The father shall be divided against the son, and the son againstthe father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter againstthe mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and thedaughter in law against her mother in law.
12:54 And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out ofthe west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it is.
12:55 And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heat;and it cometh to pass.
12:56 Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of theearth; but how is it that ye do not discern this time?  12:57 Yea, andwhy even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?  12:58 When thougoest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way,give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he halethee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and theofficer cast thee into prison.
12:59 I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast paidthe very last mite.
13:1 There were present at that season some that told him of theGalilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
13:2 And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that theseGalilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because theysuffered such things?  13:3 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, yeshall all likewise perish.
13:4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slewthem, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt inJerusalem?  13:5 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall alllikewise perish.
13:6 He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree plantedin his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.
13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, thesethree years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cutit down; why cumbereth it the ground?  13:8 And he answering said untohim, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, anddung it: 13:9 And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after thatthou shalt cut it down.
13:10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
13:11 And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmityeighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift upherself.
13:12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her,Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.
13:13 And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was madestraight, and glorified God.
13:14 And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation,because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto thepeople, There are six days in which men ought to work: in themtherefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
13:15 The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth noteach one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall,and lead him away to watering?  13:16 And ought not this woman, beinga daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteenyears, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?  13:17 And when hehad said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all thepeople rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
13:18 Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? andwhereunto shall I resemble it?  13:19 It is like a grain of mustardseed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, andwaxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches ofit.
13:20 And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measuresof meal, till the whole was leavened.
13:22 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, andjourneying toward Jerusalem.
13:23 Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? Andhe said unto them, 13:24 Strive to enter in at the strait gate: formany, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
13:25 When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut tothe door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door,saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say untoyou, I know you not whence ye are: 13:26 Then shall ye begin to say,We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in ourstreets.
13:27 But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are;depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
13:28 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall seeAbraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom ofGod, and you yourselves thrust out.
13:29 And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and fromthe north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom ofGod.
13:30 And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there arefirst which shall be last.
13:31 The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying untohim, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee.
13:32 And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I castout devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day Ishall be perfected.
13:33 Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the dayfollowing: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonestthem that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thychildren together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, andye would not!  13:35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: andverily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come whenye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
14:1 And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of thechief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watchedhim.
14:2 And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had thedropsy.
14:3 And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying,Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?  14:4 And they held theirpeace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go; 14:5 Andanswered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox falleninto a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?14:6 And they could not answer him again to these things.
14:7 And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when hemarked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them.
14:8 When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in thehighest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him;14:9 And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this manplace; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room.
14:10 But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room;that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, goup higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them thatsit at meat with thee.
14:11 For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he thathumbleth himself shall be exalted.
14:12 Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest adinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neitherthy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again,and a recompence be made thee.
14:13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, thelame, the blind: 14:14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannotrecompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection ofthe just.
14:15 And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard thesethings, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in thekingdom of God.
14:16 Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, andbade many: 14:17 And sent his servant at supper time to say to themthat were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.
14:18 And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The firstsaid unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs goand see it: I pray thee have me excused.
14:19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go toprove them: I pray thee have me excused.
14:20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannotcome.
14:21 So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then themaster of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quicklyinto the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor,and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.
14:22 And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded,and yet there is room.
14:23 And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways andhedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.
14:24 For I say unto you, That none of those men which were biddenshall taste of my supper.
14:25 And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, andsaid unto them, 14:26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father,and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea,and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannotbe my disciple.
14:28 For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not downfirst, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?14:29 Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not ableto finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, 14:30 Saying, Thisman began to build, and was not able to finish.
14:31 Or what king, going to make war against another king, sittethnot down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand tomeet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?  14:32 Or else,while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, anddesireth conditions of peace.
14:33 So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all thathe hath, he cannot be my disciple.
14:34 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewithshall it be seasoned?  14:35 It is neither fit for the land, nor yetfor the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, lethim hear.
15:1 Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hearhim.
15:2 And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This manreceiveth sinners, and eateth with them.
15:3 And he spake this parable unto them, saying, 15:4 What man ofyou, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leavethe ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which islost, until he find it?  15:5 And when he hath found it, he layeth iton his shoulders, rejoicing.
15:6 And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends andneighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found mysheep which was lost.
15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over onesinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons,which need no repentance.
15:8 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose onepiece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seekdiligently till she find it?  15:9 And when she hath found it, shecalleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice withme; for I have found the piece which I had lost.
15:10 Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of theangels of God over one sinner that repenteth.
15:11 And he said, A certain man had two sons: 15:12 And the youngerof them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods thatfalleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.
15:13 And not many days after the younger son gathered all together,and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted hissubstance with riotous living.
15:14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in thatland; and he began to be in want.
15:15 And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; andhe sent him into his fields to feed swine.
15:16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that theswine did eat: and no man gave unto him.
15:17 And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants ofmy father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father,I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, 15:19 And am no moreworthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.
15:20 And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet agreat way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, andfell on his neck, and kissed him.
15:21 And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven,and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.
15:22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe,and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:15:23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat,and be merry: 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; hewas lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.
15:25 Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nighto the house, he heard musick and dancing.
15:26 And he called one of the servants, and asked what these thingsmeant.
15:27 And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hathkilled the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.
15:28 And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his fatherout, and intreated him.
15:29 And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do Iserve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: andyet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with myfriends: 15:30 But as soon as this thy son was come, which hathdevoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fattedcalf.
15:31 And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that Ihave is thine.
15:32 It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thybrother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.
16:1 And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain richman, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that hehad wasted his goods.
16:2 And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear thisof thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be nolonger steward.
16:3 Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for mylord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I amashamed.
16:4 I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of thestewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
16:5 So he called every one of his lord’s debtors unto him, and saidunto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?  16:6 And he said,An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, andsit down quickly, and write fifty.
16:7 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, Anhundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, andwrite fourscore.
16:8 And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had donewisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiserthan the children of light.
16:9 And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon ofunrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you intoeverlasting habitations.
16:10 He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also inmuch: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.
16:11 If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteousmammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?  16:12 And ifye have not been faithful in that which is another man’s, who shallgive you that which is your own?  16:13 No servant can serve twomasters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or elsehe will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve Godand mammon.
16:14 And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all thesethings: and they derided him.
16:15 And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselvesbefore men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highlyesteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.
16:16 The law and the prophets were until John: since that time thekingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.
16:17 And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittleof the law to fail.
16:18 Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another,committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away fromher husband committeth adultery.
16:19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple andfine linen, and fared sumptuously every day: 16:20 And there was acertain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full ofsores, 16:21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell fromthe rich man’s table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
16:22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried bythe angels into Abraham’s bosom: the rich man also died, and wasburied; 16:23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, andseeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
16:24 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, andsend Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and coolmy tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
16:25 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetimereceivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but nowhe is comforted, and thou art tormented.
16:26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulffixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neithercan they pass to us, that would come from thence.
16:27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldestsend him to my father’s house: 16:28 For I have five brethren; that hemay testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
16:29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; letthem hear them.
16:30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them fromthe dead, they will repent.
16:31 And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets,neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.
17:1 Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but thatoffences will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!  17:2 Itwere better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, andhe cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these littleones.
17:3 Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee,rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
17:4 And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seventimes in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shaltforgive him.
17:5 And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.
17:6 And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, yemight say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, andbe thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.
17:7 But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle,will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go andsit down to meat?  17:8 And will not rather say unto him, Make readywherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eatenand drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?  17:9 Doth hethank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?I trow not.
17:10 So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things whichare commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have donethat which was our duty to do.
17:11 And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passedthrough the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
17:12 And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten menthat were lepers, which stood afar off: 17:13 And they lifted up theirvoices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
17:14 And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves untothe priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they werecleansed.
17:15 And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back,and with a loud voice glorified God, 17:16 And fell down on his faceat his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
17:17 And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but whereare the nine?  17:18 There are not found that returned to give gloryto God, save this stranger.
17:19 And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath madethee whole.
17:20 And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom ofGod should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God comethnot with observation: 17:21 Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lothere! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
17:22 And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when yeshall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shallnot see it.
17:23 And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not afterthem, nor follow them.
17:24 For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part underheaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also theSon of man be in his day.
17:25 But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of thisgeneration.
17:26 And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in thedays of the Son of man.
17:27 They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given inmarriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the floodcame, and destroyed them all.
17:28 Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, theydrank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; 17:29 Butthe same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstonefrom heaven, and destroyed them all.
17:30 Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man isrevealed.
17:31 In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuffin the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is inthe field, let him likewise not return back.
17:32 Remember Lot’s wife.
17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; andwhosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
17:34 I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; theone shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
17:35 Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken,and the other left.
17:36 Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and theother left.
17:37 And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he saidunto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles begathered together.
18:1 And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men oughtalways to pray, and not to faint; 18:2 Saying, There was in a city ajudge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: 18:3 And there wasa widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mineadversary.
18:4 And he would not for a while: but afterward he said withinhimself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; 18:5 Yet because thiswidow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual comingshe weary me.
18:6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.
18:7 And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and nightunto him, though he bear long with them?  18:8 I tell you that he willavenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shallhe find faith on the earth?  18:9 And he spake this parable untocertain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, anddespised others: 18:10 Two men went up into the temple to pray; theone a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
18:11 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thankthee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust,adulterers, or even as this publican.
18:12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
18:13 And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so muchas his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God bemerciful to me a sinner.
18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified ratherthan the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased;and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
18:15 And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touchthem: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
18:16 But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little childrento come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom ofGod.
18:17 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdomof God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.
18:18 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall Ido to inherit eternal life?  18:19 And Jesus said unto him, Whycallest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.
18:20 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do notkill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father andthy mother.
18:21 And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.
18:22 Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackestthou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor,and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
18:23 And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was veryrich.
18:24 And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, Howhardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye, thanfor a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
18:26 And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?  18:27 Andhe said, The things which are impossible with men are possible withGod.
18:28 Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
18:29 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no manthat hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children,for the kingdom of God’s sake, 18:30 Who shall not receive manifoldmore in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.
18:31 Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, wego up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophetsconcerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.
18:32 For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall bemocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on: 18:33 And they shallscourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall riseagain.
18:34 And they understood none of these things: and this saying washid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken.
18:35 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, acertain blind man sat by the way side begging: 18:36 And hearing themultitude pass by, he asked what it meant.
18:37 And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.
18:38 And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy onme.
18:39 And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold hispeace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy onme.
18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: andwhen he was come near, he asked him, 18:41 Saying, What wilt thou thatI shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
18:42 And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath savedthee.
18:43 And immediately he received his sight, and followed him,glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise untoGod.
19:1 And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.
19:2 And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chiefamong the publicans, and he was rich.
19:3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for thepress, because he was little of stature.
19:4 And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to seehim: for he was to pass that way.
19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, andsaid unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I mustabide at thy house.
19:6 And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.
19:7 And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was goneto be guest with a man that is a sinner.
19:8 And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, thehalf of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thingfrom any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.
19:9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to thishouse, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.
19:10 For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which waslost.
19:11 And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable,because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that thekingdom of God should immediately appear.
19:12 He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country toreceive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
19:13 And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds,and said unto them, Occupy till I come.
19:14 But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him,saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.
19:15 And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having receivedthe kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him,to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every manhad gained by trading.
19:16 Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained tenpounds.
19:17 And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hastbeen faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.
19:18 And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained fivepounds.
19:19 And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.
19:20 And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, whichI have kept laid up in a napkin: 19:21 For I feared thee, because thouart an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, andreapest that thou didst not sow.
19:22 And he saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee,thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking upthat I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow: 19:23 Whereforethen gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I mighthave required mine own with usury?  19:24 And he said unto them thatstood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath tenpounds.
19:25 (And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)  19:26 For Isay unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and fromhim that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.
19:27 But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign overthem, bring hither, and slay them before me.
19:28 And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up toJerusalem.
19:29 And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage andBethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of hisdisciples, 19:30 Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; inthe which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yetnever man sat: loose him, and bring him hither.
19:31 And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye sayunto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.
19:32 And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he hadsaid unto them.
19:33 And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said untothem, Why loose ye the colt?  19:34 And they said, The Lord hath needof him.
19:35 And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments uponthe colt, and they set Jesus thereon.
19:36 And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way.
19:37 And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mountof Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice andpraise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they hadseen; 19:38 Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of theLord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
19:39 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said untohim, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
19:40 And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if theseshould hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.
19:41 And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it,19:42 Saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thyday, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid fromthine eyes.
19:43 For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall casta trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on everyside, 19:44 And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy childrenwithin thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another;because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.
19:45 And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them thatsold therein, and them that bought; 19:46 Saying unto them, It iswritten, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den ofthieves.
19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and thescribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, 19:48 Andcould not find what they might do: for all the people were veryattentive to hear him.
20:1 And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught thepeople in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests andthe scribes came upon him with the elders, 20:2 And spake unto him,saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who ishe that gave thee this authority?  20:3 And he answered and said untothem, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me: 20:4 The baptismof John, was it from heaven, or of men?  20:5 And they reasoned withthemselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Whythen believed ye him not?  20:6 But and if we say, Of men; all thepeople will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.
20:7 And they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.
20:8 And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority Ido these things.
20:9 Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain manplanted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into afar country for a long time.
20:10 And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that theyshould give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beathim, and sent him away empty.
20:11 And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, andentreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
20:12 And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and casthim out.
20:13 Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will sendmy beloved son: it may be they will reverence him when they see him.
20:14 But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves,saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritancemay be ours.
20:15 So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. Whattherefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?  20:16 He shallcome and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard toothers. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.
20:17 And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written,The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head ofthe corner?  20:18 Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall bebroken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought tolay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived thathe had spoken this parable against them.
20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feignthemselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that sothey might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.
20:21 And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest andteachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, butteachest the way of God truly: 20:22 Is it lawful for us to givetribute unto Caesar, or no?  20:23 But he perceived their craftiness,and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?  20:24 Shew me a penny. Whoseimage and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar’s.
20:25 And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the thingswhich be Caesar’s, and unto God the things which be God’s.
20:26 And they could not take hold of his words before the people: andthey marvelled at his answer, and held their peace.
20:27 Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that thereis any resurrection; and they asked him, 20:28 Saying, Master, Moseswrote unto us, If any man’s brother die, having a wife, and he diewithout children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise upseed unto his brother.
20:29 There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife,and died without children.
20:30 And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.
20:31 And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: andthey left no children, and died.
20:32 Last of all the woman died also.
20:33 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? forseven had her to wife.
20:34 And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this worldmarry, and are given in marriage: 20:35 But they which shall beaccounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from thedead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: 20:36 Neither can theydie any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the childrenof God, being the children of the resurrection.
20:37 Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush,when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, andthe God of Jacob.
20:38 For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all liveunto him.
20:39 Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hastwell said.
20:40 And after that they durst not ask him any question at all.
20:41 And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David’s son?20:42 And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD saidunto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 20:43 Till I make thineenemies thy footstool.
20:44 David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son?  20:45Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,20:46 Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, andlove greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in thesynagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts; 20:47 Which devour widows’houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receivegreater damnation.
21:1 And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts intothe treasury.
21:2 And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither twomites.
21:3 And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hathcast in more than they all: 21:4 For all these have of their abundancecast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast inall the living that she had.
21:5 And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodlystones and gifts, he said, 21:6 As for these things which ye behold,the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stoneupon another, that shall not be thrown down.
21:7 And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these thingsbe?  and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?21:8 And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shallcome in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go yenot therefore after them.
21:9 But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified:for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not by andby.
21:10 Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, andkingdom against kingdom: 21:11 And great earthquakes shall be indivers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights andgreat signs shall there be from heaven.
21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, andpersecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons,being brought before kings and rulers for my name’s sake.
21:13 And it shall turn to you for a testimony.
21:14 Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before whatye shall answer: 21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, whichall your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.
21:16 And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, andkinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put todeath.
21:17 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake.
21:18 But there shall not an hair of your head perish.
21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.
21:20 And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then knowthat the desolation thereof is nigh.
21:21 Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and letthem which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them thatare in the countries enter thereinto.
21:22 For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which arewritten may be fulfilled.
21:23 But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that givesuck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land,and wrath upon this people.
21:24 And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be ledaway captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down ofthe Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
21:25 And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in thestars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; thesea and the waves roaring; 21:26 Men’s hearts failing them for fear,and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: forthe powers of heaven shall be shaken.
21:27 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud withpower and great glory.
21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, andlift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.
21:29 And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all thetrees; 21:30 When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your ownselves that summer is now nigh at hand.
21:31 So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know yethat the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
21:32 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, tillall be fulfilled.
21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not passaway.
21:34 And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts beovercharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life,and so that day come upon you unawares.
21:35 For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the faceof the whole earth.
21:36 Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accountedworthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and tostand before the Son of man.
21:37 And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at nighthe went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount ofOlives.
21:38 And all the people came early in the morning to him in thetemple, for to hear him.
22:1 Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called thePassover.
22:2 And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him;for they feared the people.
22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of thenumber of the twelve.
22:4 And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests andcaptains, how he might betray him unto them.
22:5 And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.
22:6 And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto themin the absence of the multitude.
22:7 Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must bekilled.
22:8 And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us thepassover, that we may eat.
22:9 And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?  22:10And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city,there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow himinto the house where he entereth in.
22:11 And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saithunto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passoverwith my disciples?  22:12 And he shall shew you a large upper roomfurnished: there make ready.
22:13 And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they madeready the passover.
22:14 And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostleswith him.
22:15 And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat thispassover with you before I suffer: 22:16 For I say unto you, I willnot any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
22:17 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, anddivide it among yourselves: 22:18 For I say unto you, I will not drinkof the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.
22:19 And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave untothem, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do inremembrance of me.
22:20 Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the newtestament in my blood, which is shed for you.
22:21 But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on thetable.
22:22 And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woeunto that man by whom he is betrayed!  22:23 And they began to enquireamong themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing.
22:24 And there was also a strife among them, which of them should beaccounted the greatest.
22:25 And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exerciselordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them arecalled benefactors.
22:26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, lethim be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.
22:27 For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he thatserveth?  is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as hethat serveth.
22:28 Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.
22:29 And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointedunto me; 22:30 That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom,and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
22:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired tohave you, that he may sift you as wheat: 22:32 But I have prayed forthee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthenthy brethren.
22:33 And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, bothinto prison, and to death.
22:34 And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow thisday, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.
22:35 And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip,and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
22:36 Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let himtake it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let himsell his garment, and buy one.
22:37 For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet beaccomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: forthe things concerning me have an end.
22:38 And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he saidunto them, It is enough.
22:39 And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount ofOlives; and his disciples also followed him.
22:40 And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that yeenter not into temptation.
22:41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stone’s cast, and kneeleddown, and prayed, 22:42 Saying, Father, if thou be willing, removethis cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
22:43 And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengtheninghim.
22:44 And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweatwas as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
22:45 And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples,he found them sleeping for sorrow, 22:46 And said unto them, Why sleepye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.
22:47 And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that wascalled Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near untoJesus to kiss him.
22:48 But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of manwith a kiss?  22:49 When they which were about him saw what wouldfollow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?22:50 And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cutoff his right ear.
22:51 And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touchedhis ear, and healed him.
22:52 Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of thetemple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, asagainst a thief, with swords and staves?  22:53 When I was daily withyou in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this isyour hour, and the power of darkness.
22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the highpriest’s house. And Peter followed afar off.
22:55 And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, andwere set down together, Peter sat down among them.
22:56 But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, andearnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him.
22:57 And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
22:58 And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou artalso of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
22:59 And about the space of one hour after another confidentlyaffirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he isa Galilaean.
22:60 And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. Andimmediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.
22:61 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter rememberedthe word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow,thou shalt deny me thrice.
22:62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
22:63 And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.
22:64 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face,and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?  22:65 Andmany other things blasphemously spake they against him.
22:66 And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and thechief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into theircouncil, saying, 22:67 Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said untothem, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68 And if I also ask you,ye will not answer me, nor let me go.
22:69 Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of thepower of God.
22:70 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he saidunto them, Ye say that I am.
22:71 And they said, What need we any further witness? for weourselves have heard of his own mouth.
23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.
23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellowperverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,saying that he himself is Christ a King.
23:3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? Andhe answered him and said, Thou sayest it.
23:4 Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I findno fault in this man.
23:5 And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people,teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place.
23:6 When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were aGalilaean.
23:7 And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod’sjurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalemat that time.
23:8 And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he wasdesirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many thingsof him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.
23:9 Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered himnothing.
23:10 And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accusedhim.
23:11 And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him,and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.
23:12 And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together:for before they were at enmity between themselves.
23:13 And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests andthe rulers and the people, 23:14 Said unto them, Ye have brought thisman unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, havingexamined him before you, have found no fault in this man touchingthose things whereof ye accuse him: 23:15 No, nor yet Herod: for Isent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.
23:16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him.
23:17 (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)23:18 And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, andrelease unto us Barabbas: 23:19 (Who for a certain sedition made inthe city, and for murder, was cast into prison.)  23:20 Pilatetherefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.
23:21 But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
23:22 And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath hedone? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastisehim, and let him go.
23:23 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he mightbe crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priestsprevailed.
23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.
23:25 And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder wascast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus totheir will.
23:26 And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, aCyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross,that he might bear it after Jesus.
23:27 And there followed him a great company of people, and of women,which also bewailed and lamented him.
23:28 But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weepnot for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.
23:29 For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say,Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the papswhich never gave suck.
23:30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; andto the hills, Cover us.
23:31 For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be donein the dry?  23:32 And there were also two other, malefactors, ledwith him to be put to death.
23:33 And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary,there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand,and the other on the left.
23:34 Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not whatthey do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.
23:35 And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with themderided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he beChrist, the chosen of God.
23:36 And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offeringhim vinegar, 23:37 And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, savethyself.
23:38 And a superscription also was written over him in letters ofGreek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
23:39 And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him,saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.
23:40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fearGod, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?  23:41 And we indeedjustly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hathdone nothing amiss.
23:42 And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest intothy kingdom.
23:43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shaltthou be with me in paradise.
23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness overall the earth until the ninth hour.
23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent inthe midst.
23:46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father,into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave upthe ghost.
23:47 Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God,saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.
23:48 And all the people that came together to that sight, beholdingthe things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned.
23:49 And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him fromGalilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.
23:50 And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and hewas a good man, and a just: 23:51 (The same had not consented to thecounsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews:who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.
23:52 This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
23:53 And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in asepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.
23:54 And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on.
23:55 And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followedafter, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.
23:56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and restedthe sabbath day according to the commandment.
24:1 Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning,they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they hadprepared, and certain others with them.
24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.
24:3 And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
24:4 And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout,behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: 24:5 And as theywere afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said untothem, Why seek ye the living among the dead?  24:6 He is not here, butis risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,24:7 Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinfulmen, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
24:8 And they remembered his words, 24:9 And returned from thesepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all therest.
24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James,and other women that were with them, which told these things unto theapostles.
24:11 And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believedthem not.
24:12 Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down,he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed,wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.
24:13 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village calledEmmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.
24:14 And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
24:15 And it came to pass, that, while they communed together andreasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
24:16 But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.
24:17 And he said unto them, What manner of communications are thesethat ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?  24:18 And theone of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thouonly a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which arecome to pass there in these days?  24:19 And he said unto them, Whatthings? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, whichwas a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:24:20 And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to becondemned to death, and have crucified him.
24:21 But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemedIsrael: and beside all this, to day is the third day since thesethings were done.
24:22 Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished,which were early at the sepulchre; 24:23 And when they found not hisbody, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels,which said that he was alive.
24:24 And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre,and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
24:25 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believeall that the prophets have spoken: 24:26 Ought not Christ to havesuffered these things, and to enter into his glory?  24:27 Andbeginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in allthe scriptures the things concerning himself.
24:28 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and hemade as though he would have gone further.
24:29 But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it istoward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry withthem.
24:30 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread,and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
24:31 And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanishedout of their sight.
24:32 And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us,while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us thescriptures?  24:33 And they rose up the same hour, and returned toJerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that werewith them, 24:34 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appearedto Simon.
24:35 And they told what things were done in the way, and how he wasknown of them in breaking of bread.
24:36 And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst ofthem, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
24:37 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that theyhad seen a spirit.
24:38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughtsarise in your hearts?  24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is Imyself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, asye see me have.
24:40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and hisfeet.
24:41 And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he saidunto them, Have ye here any meat?  24:42 And they gave him a piece ofa broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
24:43 And he took it, and did eat before them.
24:44 And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake untoyou, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled,which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and inthe psalms, concerning me.
24:45 Then opened he their understanding, that they might understandthe scriptures, 24:46 And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thusit behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:24:47 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached inhis name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
24:48 And ye are witnesses of these things.
24:49 And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarryye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from onhigh.
24:50 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up hishands, and blessed them.
24:51 And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted fromthem, and carried up into heaven.
24:52 And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with greatjoy: 24:53 And were continually in the temple, praising and blessingGod. Amen.