The Gospel According to Saint Mark
1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God; 1:2As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger beforethy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way ofthe Lord, make his paths straight.
1:4 John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism ofrepentance for the remission of sins.
1:5 And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they ofJerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan,confessing their sins.
1:6 And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and with a girdle of askin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey; 1:7 Andpreached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, thelatchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
1:8 I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize youwith the Holy Ghost.
1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazarethof Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.
1:10 And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavensopened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: 1:11 And therecame a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom Iam well pleased.
1:12 And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.
1:13 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan;and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.
1:14 Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee,preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 1:15 And saying, The timeis fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, andbelieve the gospel.
1:16 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrewhis brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.
1:17 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make youto become fishers of men.
1:18 And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him.
1:19 And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James theson of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the shipmending their nets.
1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their fatherZebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.
1:21 And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath dayhe entered into the synagogue, and taught.
1:22 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them asone that had authority, and not as the scribes.
1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit;and he cried out, 1:24 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do withthee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know theewho thou art, the Holy One of God.
1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out ofhim.
1:26 And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loudvoice, he came out of him.
1:27 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned amongthemselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? forwith authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they doobey him.
1:28 And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the regionround about Galilee.
1:29 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, theyentered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
1:30 But Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tellhim of her.
1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; andimmediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.
1:32 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all thatwere diseased, and them that were possessed with devils.
1:33 And all the city was gathered together at the door.
1:34 And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and castout many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because theyknew him.
1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he wentout, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.
1:36 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him.
1:37 And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek forthee.
1:38 And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I maypreach there also: for therefore came I forth.
1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, andcast out devils.
1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling downto him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
1:41 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touchedhim, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean.
1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departedfrom him, and he was cleansed.
1:43 And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 1:44And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way,shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those thingswhich Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blazeabroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter intothe city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him fromevery quarter.
2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it wasnoised that he was in the house.
2:2 And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that therewas no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door: and hepreached the word unto them.
2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which wasborne of four.
2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, theyuncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, theylet down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay.
2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy,Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.
2:6 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoningin their hearts, 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who canforgive sins but God only?  2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceivedin his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said untothem, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?  2:9 Whether is iteasier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; orto say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?  2:10 But that ye mayknow that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (hesaith to the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, and takeup thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.
2:12 And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth beforethem all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multituderesorted unto him, and he taught them.
2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting atthe receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose andfollowed him.
2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house,many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and hisdisciples: for there were many, and they followed him.
2:16 And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans andsinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth anddrinketh with publicans and sinners?  2:17 When Jesus heard it, hesaith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician,but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinnersto repentance.
2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast: andthey come and say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and of thePharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?  2:19 And Jesus said untothem, Can the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroomis with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, theycannot fast.
2:20 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken awayfrom them, and then shall they fast in those days.
2:21 No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment: elsethe new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old, and the rentis made worse.
2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new winedoth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles willbe marred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.
2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on thesabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the earsof corn.
2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on thesabbath day that which is not lawful?  2:25 And he said unto them,Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was anhungred, he, and they that were with him?  2:26 How he went into thehouse of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and did eat theshewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the priests, and gavealso to them which were with him?  2:27 And he said unto them, Thesabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 2:28 Thereforethe Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man therewhich had a withered hand.
3:2 And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbathday; that they might accuse him.
3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Standforth.
3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbathdays, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they held theirpeace.
3:5 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, beinggrieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man,Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand wasrestored whole as the other.
3:6 And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel withthe Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and agreat multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, 3:8 Andfrom Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and theyabout Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard whatgreat things he did, came unto him.
3:9 And he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait onhim because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.
3:10 For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him forto touch him, as many as had plagues.
3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, andcried, saying, Thou art the Son of God.
3:12 And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.
3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom hewould: and they came unto him.
3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that hemight send them forth to preach, 3:15 And to have power to healsicknesses, and to cast out devils: 3:16 And Simon he surnamed Peter;3:17 And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; andhe surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: 3:18 AndAndrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, andJames the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went intoan house.
3:20 And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could notso much as eat bread.
3:21 And when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold onhim: for they said, He is beside himself.
3:22 And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hathBeelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.
3:23 And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, Howcan Satan cast out Satan?  3:24 And if a kingdom be divided againstitself, that kingdom cannot stand.
3:25 And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannotstand.
3:26 And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannotstand, but hath an end.
3:27 No man can enter into a strong man’s house, and spoil his goods,except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil hishouse.
3:28 Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sonsof men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: 3:29But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath neverforgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation.
3:30 Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.
3:31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standingwithout, sent unto him, calling him.
3:32 And the multitude sat about him, and they said unto him, Behold,thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee.
3:33 And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?3:34 And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and said,Behold my mother and my brethren!  3:35 For whosoever shall do thewill of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.
4:1 And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there wasgathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship,and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on theland.
4:2 And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them inhis doctrine, 4:3 Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow: 4:4And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and thefowls of the air came and devoured it up.
4:5 And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; andimmediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: 4:6 Butwhen the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, itwithered away.
4:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it,and it yielded no fruit.
4:8 And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang upand increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, andsome an hundred.
4:9 And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
4:10 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelveasked of him the parable.
4:11 And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mysteryof the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all thesethings are done in parables: 4:12 That seeing they may see, and notperceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at anytime they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them.
4:13 And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how thenwill ye know all parables?  4:14 The sower soweth the word.
4:15 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; butwhen they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away theword that was sown in their hearts.
4:16 And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who,when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness;4:17 And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time:afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word’s sake,immediately they are offended.
4:18 And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear theword, 4:19 And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness ofriches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, andit becometh unfruitful.
4:20 And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hearthe word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, somesixty, and some an hundred.
4:21 And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under abushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick?  4:22 Forthere is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was anything kept secret, but that it should come abroad.
4:23 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.
4:24 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measureye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shallmore be given.
4:25 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not,from him shall be taken even that which he hath.
4:26 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should castseed into the ground; 4:27 And should sleep, and rise night and day,and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how.
4:28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade,then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear.
4:29 But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth inthe sickle, because the harvest is come.
4:30 And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or withwhat comparison shall we compare it?  4:31 It is like a grain ofmustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than allthe seeds that be in the earth: 4:32 But when it is sown, it growethup, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out greatbranches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow ofit.
4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as theywere able to hear it.
4:34 But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they werealone, he expounded all things to his disciples.
4:35 And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Letus pass over unto the other side.
4:36 And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even ashe was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.
4:37 And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat intothe ship, so that it was now full.
4:38 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow:and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that weperish?  4:39 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto thesea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.
4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that yehave no faith?  4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one toanother, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the seaobey him?  5:1 And they came over unto the other side of the sea, intothe country of the Gadarenes.
5:2 And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met himout of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 5:3 Who had hisdwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not withchains: 5:4 Because that he had been often bound with fetters andchains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and thefetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.
5:5 And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in thetombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.
5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him, 5:7 Andcried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus,thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou tormentme not.
5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.
5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, Myname is Legion: for we are many.
5:10 And he besought him much that he would not send them away out ofthe country.
5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swinefeeding.
5:12 And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine,that we may enter into them.
5:13 And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits wentout, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down asteep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and werechoked in the sea.
5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city, and inthe country. And they went out to see what it was that was done.
5:15 And they come to Jesus, and see him that was possessed with thedevil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his rightmind: and they were afraid.
5:16 And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that waspossessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine.
5:17 And they began to pray him to depart out of their coasts.
5:18 And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessedwith the devil prayed him that he might be with him.
5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home tothy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done forthee, and hath had compassion on thee.
5:20 And he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis how greatthings Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel.
5:21 And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side,much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.
5:22 And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue,Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet, 5:23 Andbesought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point ofdeath: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may behealed; and she shall live.
5:24 And Jesus went with him; and much people followed him, andthronged him.
5:25 And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years,5:26 And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spentall that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,5:27 When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, andtouched his garment.
5:28 For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.
5:29 And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and shefelt in her body that she was healed of that plague.
5:30 And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had goneout of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched myclothes?  5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest themultitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  5:32 Andhe looked round about to see her that had done this thing.
5:33 But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done inher, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
5:34 And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole;go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.
5:35 While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue’shouse certain which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou theMaster any further?  5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word that wasspoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, onlybelieve.
5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, andJohn the brother of James.
5:38 And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, andseeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.
5:39 And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye thisado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.
5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out,he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that werewith him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.
5:41 And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talithacumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.
5:42 And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of theage of twelve years. And they were astonished with a greatastonishment.
5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; andcommanded that something should be given her to eat.
6:1 And he went out from thence, and came into his own country; andhis disciples follow him.
6:2 And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in thesynagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whencehath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is givenunto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands?  6:3Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, andJoses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?And they were offended at him.
6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, but inhis own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house.
6:5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his handsupon a few sick folk, and healed them.
6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went roundabout the villages, teaching.
6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth bytwo and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits; 6:8 Andcommanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save astaff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But beshod with sandals; and not put on two coats.
6:10 And he said unto them, In what place soever ye enter into anhouse, there abide till ye depart from that place.
6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye departthence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony againstthem.
Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom andGomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.
6:12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent.
6:13 And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many thatwere sick, and healed them.
6:14 And king Herod heard of him; (for his name was spread abroad:)and he said, That John the Baptist was risen from the dead, andtherefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.
6:15 Others said, That it is Elias. And others said, That it is aprophet, or as one of the prophets.
6:16 But when Herod heard thereof, he said, It is John, whom Ibeheaded: he is risen from the dead.
6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, andbound him in prison for Herodias’ sake, his brother Philip’s wife: forhe had married her.
6:18 For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to havethy brother’s wife.
6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would havekilled him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowingthat he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when heheard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.
6:21 And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthdaymade a supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates ofGalilee; 6:22 And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, anddanced, and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king saidunto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give itthee.
6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I willgive it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.
6:24 And she went forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask?And she said, The head of John the Baptist.
6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked,saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the head ofJohn the Baptist.
6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for his oath’s sake, andfor their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject her.
6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded hishead to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and thedamsel gave it to her mother.
6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up hiscorpse, and laid it in a tomb.
6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, andtold him all things, both what they had done, and what they hadtaught.
6:31 And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desertplace, and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, andthey had no leisure so much as to eat.
6:32 And they departed into a desert place by ship privately.
6:33 And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ranafoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came togetherunto him.
6:34 And Jesus, when he came out, saw much people, and was moved withcompassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having ashepherd: and he began to teach them many things.
6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him,and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36Send them away, that they may go into the country round about, andinto the villages, and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing toeat.
6:37 He answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they sayunto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, andgive them to eat?  6:38 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye?go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes.
6:39 And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon thegreen grass.
6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.
6:41 And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, helooked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave themto his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided heamong them all.
6:42 And they did all eat, and were filled.
6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of thefishes.
6:44 And they that did eat of the loaves were about five thousand men.
6:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into theship, and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sentaway the people.
6:46 And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain topray.
6:47 And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, andhe alone on the land.
6:48 And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary untothem: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them,walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them.
6:49 But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it hadbeen a spirit, and cried out: 6:50 For they all saw him, and weretroubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them, Beof good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.
6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased: andthey were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered.
6:52 For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for theirheart was hardened.
6:53 And when they had passed over, they came into the land ofGennesaret, and drew to the shore.
6:54 And when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knewhim, 6:55 And ran through that whole region round about, and began tocarry about in beds those that were sick, where they heard he was.
6:56 And whithersoever he entered, into villages, or cities, orcountry, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that theymight touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many astouched him were made whole.
7:1 Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of thescribes, which came from Jerusalem.
7:2 And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled,that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fault.
7:3 For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their handsoft, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders.
7:4 And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eatnot.
And many other things there be, which they have received to hold, asthe washing of cups, and pots, brasen vessels, and of tables.
7:5 Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thydisciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread withunwashen hands?  7:6 He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaiasprophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honourethme with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
7:7 Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines thecommandments of men.
7:8 For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition ofmen, as the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like thingsye do.
7:9 And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God,that ye may keep your own tradition.
7:10 For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whosocurseth father or mother, let him die the death: 7:11 But ye say, If aman shall say to his father or mother, It is Corban, that is to say, agift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free.
7:12 And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or hismother; 7:13 Making the word of God of none effect through yourtradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things do ye.
7:14 And when he had called all the people unto him, he said untothem, Hearken unto me every one of you, and understand: 7:15 There isnothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: butthe things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.
7:16 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.
7:17 And when he was entered into the house from the people, hisdisciples asked him concerning the parable.
7:18 And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Doye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into theman, it cannot defile him; 7:19 Because it entereth not into hisheart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging allmeats?  7:20 And he said, That which cometh out of the man, thatdefileth the man.
7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts,adulteries, fornications, murders, 7:22 Thefts, covetousness,wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride,foolishness: 7:23 All these evil things come from within, and defilethe man.
7:24 And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre andSidon, and entered into an house, and would have no man know it: buthe could not be hid.
7:25 For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit,heard of him, and came and fell at his feet: 7:26 The woman was aGreek, a Syrophenician by nation; and she besought him that he wouldcast forth the devil out of her daughter.
7:27 But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for itis not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it unto thedogs.
7:28 And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs underthe table eat of the children’s crumbs.
7:29 And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil isgone out of thy daughter.
7:30 And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out,and her daughter laid upon the bed.
7:31 And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he cameunto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis.
7:32 And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impedimentin his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.
7:33 And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingersinto his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue; 7:34 And lookingup to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Beopened.
7:35 And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of histongue was loosed, and he spake plain.
7:36 And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more hecharged them, so much the more a great deal they published it; 7:37And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all thingswell: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.
8:1 In those days the multitude being very great, and having nothingto eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him, and saith unto them, 8:2I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been with methree days, and have nothing to eat: 8:3 And if I send them awayfasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers ofthem came from far.
8:4 And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfythese men with bread here in the wilderness?  8:5 And he asked them,How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.
8:6 And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground: and he tookthe seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to hisdisciples to set before them; and they did set them before the people.
8:7 And they had a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded toset them also before them.
8:8 So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the brokenmeat that was left seven baskets.
8:9 And they that had eaten were about four thousand: and he sent themaway.
8:10 And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples, andcame into the parts of Dalmanutha.
8:11 And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him,seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him.
8:12 And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth thisgeneration seek after a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall nosign be given unto this generation.
8:13 And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed tothe other side.
8:14 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had theyin the ship with them more than one loaf.
8:15 And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven ofthe Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.
8:16 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we haveno bread.
8:17 And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye,because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand?have ye your heart yet hardened?  8:18 Having eyes, see ye not? andhaving ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember?  8:19 When I brakethe five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full offragments took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.
8:20 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full offragments took ye up? And they said, Seven.
8:21 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?  8:22And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, andbesought him to touch him.
8:23 And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of thetown; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, heasked him if he saw ought.
8:24 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking.
8:25 After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made himlook up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly.
8:26 And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into thetown, nor tell it to any in the town.
8:27 And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of CaesareaPhilippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them,Whom do men say that I am?  8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist;but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets.
8:29 And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peteranswereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ.
8:30 And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.
8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer manythings, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, andscribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
8:32 And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began torebuke him.
8:33 But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, herebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourestnot the things that be of God, but the things that be of men.
8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his disciplesalso, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him denyhimself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
8:35 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoevershall lose his life for my sake and the gospel’s, the same shall saveit.
8:36 For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world,and lose his own soul?  8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange forhis soul?  8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of mywords in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall theSon of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father withthe holy angels.
9:1 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be someof them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till theyhave seen the kingdom of God come with power.
9:2 And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, andJohn, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves:and he was transfigured before them.
9:3 And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as nofuller on earth can white them.
9:4 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they weretalking with Jesus.
9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us tobe here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one forMoses, and one for Elias.
9:6 For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid.
9:7 And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came outof the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
9:8 And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no manany more, save Jesus only with themselves.
9:9 And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that theyshould tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man wererisen from the dead.
9:10 And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one withanother what the rising from the dead should mean.
9:11 And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias mustfirst come?  9:12 And he answered and told them, Elias verily comethfirst, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the Son ofman, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought.
9:13 But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have doneunto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him.
9:14 And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude aboutthem, and the scribes questioning with them.
9:15 And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, weregreatly amazed, and running to him saluted him.
9:16 And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them?  9:17 Andone of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought untothee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; 9:18 And wheresoever he takethhim, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, andpineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast himout; and they could not.
9:19 He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how longshall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.
9:20 And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightwaythe spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.
9:21 And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came untohim?  And he said, Of a child.
9:22 And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters,to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us,and help us.
9:23 Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things arepossible to him that believeth.
9:24 And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said withtears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.
9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebukedthe foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I chargethee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.
9:26 And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him: andhe was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.
9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose.
9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked himprivately, Why could not we cast him out?  9:29 And he said unto them,This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.
9:30 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and hewould not that any man should know it.
9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of manis delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and afterthat he is killed, he shall rise the third day.
9:32 But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him.
9:33 And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them,What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?  9:34 Butthey held their peace: for by the way they had disputed amongthemselves, who should be the greatest.
9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, Ifany man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servantof all.
9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and whenhe had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37 Whosoever shallreceive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoevershall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.
9:38 And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting outdevils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and we forbad him,because he followeth not us.
9:39 But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shalldo a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me.
9:40 For he that is not against us is on our part.
9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name,because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not losehis reward.
9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believein me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about hisneck, and he were cast into the sea.
9:43 And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee toenter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, intothe fire that never shall be quenched: 9:44 Where their worm diethnot, and the fire is not quenched.
9:45 And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee toenter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, intothe fire that never shall be quenched: 9:46 Where their worm diethnot, and the fire is not quenched.
9:47 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for theeto enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes tobe cast into hell fire: 9:48 Where their worm dieth not, and the fireis not quenched.
9:49 For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrificeshall be salted with salt.
9:50 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewithwill ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one withanother.
10:1 And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea bythe farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and,as he was wont, he taught them again.
10:2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for aman to put away his wife? tempting him.
10:3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?10:4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, andto put her away.
10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of yourheart he wrote you this precept.
10:6 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male andfemale.
10:7 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, andcleave to his wife; 10:8 And they twain shall be one flesh: so thenthey are no more twain, but one flesh.
10:9 What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
10:10 And in the house his disciples asked him again of the samematter.
10:11 And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, andmarry another, committeth adultery against her.
10:12 And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married toanother, she committeth adultery.
10:13 And they brought young children to him, that he should touchthem: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.
10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said untothem, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not:for of such is the kingdom of God.
10:15 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdomof God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.
10:16 And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, andblessed them.
10:17 And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running,and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that Imay inherit eternal life?  10:18 And Jesus said unto him, Why callestthou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God.
10:19 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do notkill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thyfather and mother.  10:20 And he answered and said unto him, Master,all these have I observed from my youth.
10:21 Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thingthou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to thepoor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up thecross, and follow me.
10:22 And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he hadgreat possessions.
10:23 And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, Howhardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!10:24 And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesusanswereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it forthem that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!  10:25 Itis easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for arich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
10:26 And they were astonished out of measure, saying amongthemselves, Who then can be saved?  10:27 And Jesus looking upon themsaith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God allthings are possible.
10:28 Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and havefollowed thee.
10:29 And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is noman that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, ormother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel’s,10:30 But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses,and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, withpersecutions; and in the world to come eternal life.
10:31 But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.
10:32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus wentbefore them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they wereafraid.
And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what thingsshould happen unto him, 10:33 Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem;and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and untothe scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliverhim to the Gentiles: 10:34 And they shall mock him, and shall scourgehim, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day heshall rise again.
10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying,Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shalldesire.
10:36 And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you?10:37 They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thyright hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.
10:38 But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drinkof the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I ambaptized with?  10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus saidunto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and withthe baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 10:40 Butto sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; butit shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.
10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased withJames and John.
10:42 But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know thatthey which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordshipover them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them.
10:43 But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be greatamong you, shall be your minister: 10:44 And whosoever of you will bethe chiefest, shall be servant of all.
10:45 For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but tominister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
10:46 And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with hisdisciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son ofTimaeus, sat by the highway side begging.
10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cryout, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.
10:48 And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he criedthe more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
10:49 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And theycall the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; hecalleth thee.
10:50 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.
10:51 And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that Ishould do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I mightreceive my sight.
10:52 And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made theewhole.
And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.
11:1 And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany,at the mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples, 11:2And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you:and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied,whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.
11:3 And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lordhath need of him; and straightway he will send him hither.
11:4 And they went their way, and found the colt tied by the doorwithout in a place where two ways met; and they loose him.
11:5 And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye,loosing the colt?  11:6 And they said unto them even as Jesus hadcommanded: and they let them go.
11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments onhim; and he sat upon him.
11:8 And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut downbranches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.
11:9 And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying,Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: 11:10Blessed be the kingdom of our father David, that cometh in the name ofthe Lord: Hosanna in the highest.
11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and whenhe had looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide wascome, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.
11:12 And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he washungry: 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came,if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, hefound nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.
11:14 And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of theehereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.
11:15 And they come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple, andbegan to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, andoverthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them thatsold doves; 11:16 And would not suffer that any man should carry anyvessel through the temple.
11:17 And he taught, saying unto them, Is it not written, My houseshall be called of all nations the house of prayer? but ye have madeit a den of thieves.
11:18 And the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how theymight destroy him: for they feared him, because all the people wasastonished at his doctrine.
11:19 And when even was come, he went out of the city.
11:20 And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig treedried up from the roots.
11:21 And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Master, behold,the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away.
11:22 And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God.
11:23 For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto thismountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shallnot doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which hesaith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.
11:24 Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when yepray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.
11:25 And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought againstany: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you yourtrespasses.
11:26 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is inheaven forgive your trespasses.
11:27 And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in thetemple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and theelders, 11:28 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou thesethings? and who gave thee this authority to do these things?  11:29And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you onequestion, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I dothese things.
11:30 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? answer me.
11:31 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, Fromheaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?  11:32 But if weshall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all men counted John,that he was a prophet indeed.
11:33 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesusanswering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority Ido these things.
12:1 And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain manplanted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and digged a place forthe winefat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and wentinto a far country.
12:2 And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that hemight receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.
12:3 And they caught him, and beat him, and sent him away empty.
12:4 And again he sent unto them another servant; and at him they caststones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefullyhandled.
12:5 And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others;beating some, and killing some.
12:6 Having yet therefore one son, his wellbeloved, he sent him alsolast unto them, saying, They will reverence my son.
12:7 But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir;come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be ours.
12:8 And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of thevineyard.
12:9 What shall therefore the lord of the vineyard do? he will comeand destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard unto others.
12:10 And have ye not read this scripture; The stone which thebuilders rejected is become the head of the corner: 12:11 This was theLord’s doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?  12:12 And they soughtto lay hold on him, but feared the people: for they knew that he hadspoken the parable against them: and they left him, and went theirway.
12:13 And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of theHerodians, to catch him in his words.
12:14 And when they were come, they say unto him, Master, we know thatthou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not theperson of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful togive tribute to Caesar, or not?  12:15 Shall we give, or shall we notgive? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt yeme? bring me a penny, that I may see it.
12:16 And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this imageand superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar’s.
12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the thingsthat are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s. And theymarvelled at him.
12:18 Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is noresurrection; and they asked him, saying, 12:19 Master, Moses wroteunto us, If a man’s brother die, and leave his wife behind him, andleave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise upseed unto his brother.
12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, anddying left no seed.
12:21 And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: andthe third likewise.
12:22 And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the womandied also.
12:23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wifeshall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife.
12:24 And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err,because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?  12:25For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor aregiven in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven.
12:26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read inthe book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I amthe God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?  12:27He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye thereforedo greatly err.
12:28 And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoningtogether, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him,Which is the first commandment of all?  12:29 And Jesus answered him,The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our Godis one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thyheart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thystrength: this is the first commandment.
12:31 And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thyneighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater thanthese.
12:32 And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said thetruth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: 12:33 Andto love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, andwith all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love hisneighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings andsacrifices.
12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said untohim, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after thatdurst ask him any question.
12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, Howsay the scribes that Christ is the son of David?  12:36 For Davidhimself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou onmy right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
12:37 David therefore himself calleth him Lord; and whence is he thenhis son? And the common people heard him gladly.
12:38 And he said unto them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes,which love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in themarketplaces, 12:39 And the chief seats in the synagogues, and theuppermost rooms at feasts: 12:40 Which devour widows’ houses, and fora pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.
12:41 And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how thepeople cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast inmuch.
12:42 And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites,which make a farthing.
12:43 And he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them,Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in, thanall they which have cast into the treasury: 12:44 For all they didcast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all thatshe had, even all her living.
13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith untohim, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!13:2 And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these greatbuildings?  there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shallnot be thrown down.
13:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple,Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, 13:4 Tell us,when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign when all thesethings shall be fulfilled?  13:5 And Jesus answering them began tosay, Take heed lest any man deceive you: 13:6 For many shall come inmy name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.
13:7 And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye nottroubled: for such things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.
13:8 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom againstkingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and thereshall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.
13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up tocouncils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall bebrought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony againstthem.
13:10 And the gospel must first be published among all nations.
13:11 But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take nothought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: butwhatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it isnot ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost.
13:12 Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and thefather the son; and children shall rise up against their parents, andshall cause them to be put to death.
13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he thatshall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.
13:14 But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken ofby Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him thatreadeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to themountains: 13:15 And let him that is on the housetop not go down intothe house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house:13:16 And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to takeup his garment.
13:17 But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suckin those days!  13:18 And pray ye that your flight be not in thewinter.
13:19 For in those days shall be affliction, such as was not from thebeginning of the creation which God created unto this time, neithershall be.
13:20 And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no fleshshould be saved: but for the elect’s sake, whom he hath chosen, hehath shortened the days.
13:21 And then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or,lo, he is there; believe him not: 13:22 For false Christs and falseprophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, ifit were possible, even the elect.
13:23 But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.
13:24 But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall bedarkened, and the moon shall not give her light, 13:25 And the starsof heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall beshaken.
13:26 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds withgreat power and glory.
13:27 And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together hiselect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to theuttermost part of heaven.
13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yettender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near: 13:29So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass,know that it is nigh, even at the doors.
13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, tillall these things be done.
13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not passaway.
13:32 But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angelswhich are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.
13:33 Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.
13:34 For the Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey, who lefthis house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man hiswork, and commanded the porter to watch.
13:35 Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the housecometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in themorning: 13:36 Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.
13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.
14:1 After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavenedbread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they mighttake him by craft, and put him to death.
14:2 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar ofthe people.
14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he satat meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment ofspikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on hishead.
14:4 And there were some that had indignation within themselves, andsaid, Why was this waste of the ointment made?  14:5 For it might havebeen sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given tothe poor. And they murmured against her.
14:6 And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hathwrought a good work on me.
14:7 For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will yemay do them good: but me ye have not always.
14:8 She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint mybody to the burying.
14:9 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preachedthroughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall bespoken of for a memorial of her.
14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chiefpriests, to betray him unto them.
14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give himmoney. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.
14:12 And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed thepassover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go andprepare that thou mayest eat the passover?  14:13 And he sendeth forthtwo of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, andthere shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.
14:14 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of thehouse, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eatthe passover with my disciples?  14:15 And he will shew you a largeupper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us.
14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and foundas he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.
14:17 And in the evening he cometh with the twelve.
14:18 And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you,One of you which eateth with me shall betray me.
14:19 And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one,Is it I? and another said, Is it I?  14:20 And he answered and saidunto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish.
14:21 The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe tothat man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that manif he had never been born.
14:22 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brakeit, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.
14:23 And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it tothem: and they all drank of it.
14:24 And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament,which is shed for many.
14:25 Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of thevine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
14:26 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount ofOlives.
14:27 And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because ofme this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and thesheep shall be scattered.
14:28 But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
14:29 But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yetwill not I.
14:30 And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day,even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny methrice.
14:31 But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, Iwill not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all.
14:32 And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and hesaith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray.
14:33 And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to besore amazed, and to be very heavy; 14:34 And saith unto them, My soulis exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch.
14:35 And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayedthat, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
14:36 And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee;take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but whatthou wilt.
14:37 And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter,Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour?  14:38 Watchye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready,but the flesh is weak.
14:39 And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words.
14:40 And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for theireyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him.
14:41 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now,and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son ofman is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
14:42 Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand.
14:43 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of thetwelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, fromthe chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
14:44 And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying,Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him awaysafely.
14:45 And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, andsaith, Master, master; and kissed him.
14:46 And they laid their hands on him, and took him.
14:47 And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servantof the high priest, and cut off his ear.
14:48 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, asagainst a thief, with swords and with staves to take me?  14:49 I wasdaily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but thescriptures must be fulfilled.
14:50 And they all forsook him, and fled.
14:51 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen clothcast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: 14:52And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.
14:53 And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him wereassembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.
14:54 And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of thehigh priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at thefire.
14:55 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witnessagainst Jesus to put him to death; and found none.
14:56 For many bare false witness against him, but their witnessagreed not together.
14:57 And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him,saying, 14:58 We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that ismade with hands, and within three days I will build another madewithout hands.
14:59 But neither so did their witness agree together.
14:60 And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus,saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness againstthee?  14:61 But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again thehigh priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Sonof the Blessed?  14:62 And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Sonof man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds ofheaven.
14:63 Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need weany further witnesses?  14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what thinkye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death.
14:65 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and tobuffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strikehim with the palms of their hands.
14:66 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of themaids of the high priest: 14:67 And when she saw Peter warminghimself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesusof Nazareth.
14:68 But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I whatthou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew.
14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stoodby, This is one of them.
14:70 And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood bysaid again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art aGalilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto.
14:71 But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this manof whom ye speak.
14:72 And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind theword that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shaltdeny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.
15:1 And straightway in the morning the chief priests held aconsultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, andbound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate.
15:2 And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And heanswering said unto them, Thou sayest it.
15:3 And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answerednothing.
15:4 And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing?behold how many things they witness against thee.
15:5 But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled.
15:6 Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoeverthey desired.
15:7 And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them thathad made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in theinsurrection.
15:8 And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as hehad ever done unto them.
15:9 But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto youthe King of the Jews?  15:10 For he knew that the chief priests haddelivered him for envy.
15:11 But the chief priests moved the people, that he should ratherrelease Barabbas unto them.
15:12 And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye thenthat I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews?  15:13 Andthey cried out again, Crucify him.
15:14 Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? Andthey cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.
15:15 And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbasunto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to becrucified.
15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium;and they call together the whole band.
15:17 And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns,and put it about his head, 15:18 And began to salute him, Hail, Kingof the Jews!  15:19 And they smote him on the head with a reed, anddid spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him.
15:20 And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him,and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.
15:21 And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming outof the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.
15:22 And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, beinginterpreted, The place of a skull.
15:23 And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but hereceived it not.
15:24 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments,casting lots upon them, what every man should take.
15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
15:26 And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THEKING OF THE JEWS.
15:27 And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his righthand, and the other on his left.
15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he wasnumbered with the transgressors.
15:29 And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, andsaying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in threedays, 15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross.
15:31 Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselveswith the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save.
15:32 Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, thatwe may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviledhim.
15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over thewhole land until the ninth hour.
15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying,Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, myGod, why hast thou forsaken me?  15:35 And some of them that stood by,when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.
15:36 And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on areed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whetherElias will come to take him down.
15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.
15:38 And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to thebottom.
15:39 And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw thathe so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man wasthe Son of God.
15:40 There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was MaryMagdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, andSalome; 15:41 (Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, andministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with him untoJerusalem.
15:42 And now when the even was come, because it was the preparation,that is, the day before the sabbath, 15:43 Joseph of Arimathaea, anhonourable counsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came,and went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus.
15:44 And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling untohim the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead.
15:45 And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body toJoseph.
15:46 And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him inthe linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock,and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre.
15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where hewas laid.
16:1 And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary themother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they mightcome and anoint him.
16:2 And very early in the morning the first day of the week, theycame unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun.
16:3 And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stonefrom the door of the sepulchre?  16:4 And when they looked, they sawthat the stone was rolled away: for it was very great.
16:5 And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting onthe right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they wereaffrighted.
16:6 And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus ofNazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold theplace where they laid him.
16:7 But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goethbefore you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.
16:8 And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for theytrembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; forthey were afraid.
16:9 Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, heappeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast sevendevils.
16:10 And she went and told them that had been with him, as theymourned and wept.
16:11 And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had beenseen of her, believed not.
16:12 After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as theywalked, and went into the country.
16:13 And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believedthey them.
16:14 Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, andupbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because theybelieved not them which had seen him after he was risen.
16:15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach thegospel to every creature.
16:16 He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he thatbelieveth not shall be damned.
16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shallthey cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 16:18 Theyshall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shallnot hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shallrecover.
16:19 So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received upinto heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.
16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord workingwith them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.